ARCHITECTURE.md (#1971)
hashicorp/waypoint: ARCHITECTURE.md

# Architecture

This document describes the high-level architecture of Waypoint. The goal
of this document is to give anyone interested in contributing to Waypoint
a high-level overview of how Waypoint works. This tries to stay high level
to guide to the right area of Waypoint, but stops short of explaining in detail

> how something might work since its easy for that to get out of sync with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
how something might work since it's easy for that to get out of sync with the
```

Waypoint Server queues jobs, and Waypoint Runners dequeue and execute the
queued jobs. The Waypoint Server process itself never executes a job.

#### State Machine

A job is represented in Waypoint as a state machine. The diagram below shows
the full state machine a job:

<p align="center"><img src=".github/images/job-states.png" width="70%"></p>

A job begins **QUEUED** as soon as it is enqueued using the `QueueJob` API. 
Additionally, the Waypoint server sometimes self-queues jobs such as for
polling. 

When a Runner process starts or has capacity, it can request a job from
the Waypoint server. If no jobs are available, this request will block and
the runner will wait. If a job is available, the Waypoint server assigns the
job and the job enters the **WAITING** state. During this state, we're waiting
for the runner to acknowledge that it has taken responsibility for the job.

During the **QUEUED** and **WAITING** states, a job may expire. A job may optionally
have an expiration deadline associated with it. If a job has a deadline, then at
that time, the job will immediately move to the **ERROR** state with a message noting

> it expired.

Reviewer 2: FYI I changed `it's` to `its` -- apparently anyone can edit someone else's suggestion, zoinks.

While a job is in the **WAITING**, it will not be assigned to any other runner.

After being assigned a job, the runner acknowledges (acks) the job. This means that
the runner has taken responsibility for the job and the job enters the **RUNNING**

> state. If the runner nacks (negative acknowledgement) the job or the runner doesn't

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
state. If the runner negatively acknowledges (nacks) the job or the runner doesn't
```

I feel this improves readability by putting both the short terms (ack, nack) in parenthesis, instead of being opposite.
